Dear |name|,

Sans Souci Festival of Dance Cinema is a niche film festival specializing in dance cinema and incorporating live performance. |more1|

Sans Souci Festival of Dance Cinema - Calls for Entries

This year, for the first time, Sans Souci Festival of Dance Cinema is making two Calls for Entries. Our first Scholarly Gathering will be co-located with our 7th Annual Festival of Dance Cinema on September 10 & 11, 2010 in Boulder, Colorado USA. We invite you to respond to our calls for entries. 

For more information, read below or visit http://www.sanssoucifest.org.


Call for Entries - Dance Cinema

The Sans Souci Festival of Dance Cinema invites submissions of 1) film and video works that integrate dance and cinematography and 2) mixed-media works that include both cinema and live performance. We encourage submissions from all artists regardless of credentials and affiliations. Deadlines for submission are April 30, 2010 and May 28, 2010.

We encourage submissions from all artists regardless of credentials and affiliations. When choosing works we consider production values, thoughtful forms and themes, innovative approaches, and other curatorial criteria

Accepted works will be exhibited on September 10 & 11, 2010 at the University of Colorado's ATLAS Black Box Theatre in Boulder Colorado USA and, with permission, considered for upcoming tours.

We're interested in film and video works that integrate dance and cinematography. Shorts are preferred. Documentaries and animations will be considered. Note that we are not interested in simple recordings of dance on a proscenium stage - cinematic elements must be an integral part of the entry.

For more information and access to the online entry form, visit http://www.sanssoucifest.org/danceCinemaCall2010.php


Call for Entries - Scholarly Proposals

This year Sans Souci Festival is also proud to announce its first call for scholarly proposals on the topic of "Dance Cinema / Media." The deadline for proposal submission is May 14, 2010.

We're interested in a broad range of topics that investigate dance cinema and/or the intersection of dance and cinema. Examples of this intersection could include: discussion of the history of dance cinema and how it is changing, the ever-evolving technology behind the scenes, the advancement of YouTube and its relation to dance for the camera, the interplay of reality TV dance competitions and proscenium stage expectations, dance for camera audiences, the use of animation and special effects, and so on.

We encourage you to submit a wide range of proposals: research papers, panels, lecture-demonstrations, roundtable discussions, and so on.

Proposal Formats
- Individual paper for a panel: 20 minutes per paper presentation in a panel with 3 papers and a discussant
- Panel: 60 minutes for all presentations plus 20 minutes for a response with 3 papers and a discussant
- Other: Please describe format and time frame. Maximum duration is 60 minutes including setup, wrap up, and breakdown.

For more information and access to the downloadable proposal form, visit http://www.sanssoucifest.org/scholarlyCall2010.php.


About Sans Souci Festival of Dance cinema
Sans Souci Festival of Dance Cinema is a niche film festival specializing in dance cinema and incorporating live performance. Meaning “without concern,” Sans Souci was conceived one fine spring day in 2003 when Michelle Ellsworth and Brandi Mathis sat on the porch of a 1967 Marlette Mobile home in the Sans Souci Trailer Park in Boulder Colorado USA musing about the pleasures of viewing and creating dances for the screen. With an expansive definition of dance and an appreciation for highly experimental and interdisciplinary forms, this unique festival exposes diverse audiences to a variety of film, video, and performance possibilities. 


Mailing List
To remove yourself from this mailing list, send email to removeMe@sanssoucifest.org. Be sure to send from the email address that you want removed from our list.
